.\" =================================================================
.\" KONAPAPER.CONF(5)      Konapaper User Manual     KONAPAPER.CONF(5)
.\" =================================================================
.TH KONAPAPER.CONF 5 "April 2026" "Konapaper 1.3.0" "Konapaper User Manual"
.SH NAME
konapaper.conf \- user configuration file for \fBkonapaper\fR(1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ~/.config/konapaper/konapaper.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
This file contains user overrides for the Konapaper wallpaper rotator.
All defaults are defined in the script itself; this file is only needed
when you want to change behaviour from the defaults.
.PP
The file uses simple Bash variable assignment syntax.
Each option is a single line in the form:
.IP
.B VARIABLE="value"
.PP
To see all available options and their defaults, run \fBkonapaper.sh --help\fR
or use the interactive setup wizard: \fBkonapaper.sh --init-interactive\fR
.SH SEARCH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B TAGS
A space-separated list of Moebooru tags to filter search results.
Tags can include character names, artists, series, or general descriptors.
.br
Example: \fBTAGS="touhou scenic"\fR
.br
Default: \fI""\fR (none)
.TP
.B LIMIT
The number of posts to retrieve from the API for each query.
.br
Default: \fI50\fR
.TP
.B RATING
Filter posts by content rating: \fBs\fR (safe), \fBq\fR (questionable), \fBe\fR (explicit).
.br
Default: \fB"s"\fR
.TP
.B ORDER
Sorting order: \fBrandom\fR, \fBscore\fR, or \fBdate\fR.
.br
Default: \fB"random"\fR
.TP
.B PAGE
Page number to query. Can be a fixed number, the string \fB"random"\fR, or a range \fB"MIN-MAX"\fR.
.br
Default: \fB1\fR
.SH ADVANCED FILTERING
.TP
.B MAX_FILE_SIZE
Maximum allowed file size. Use formats like \fB500KB\fR, \fB2MB\fR, \fB1GB\fR.
Set to \fB0\fR to disable.
.br
Default: \fB"2MB"\fR
.TP
.B MIN_FILE_SIZE
Minimum allowed file size. Helps filter out thumbnails or low-quality images.
.br
Default: \fI"0"\fR (disabled)
.TP
.B MIN_SCORE
Only use images with a score greater than or equal to this value.
.br
Default: \fI""\fR (disabled)
.TP
.B ARTIST
Filter posts by a specific artist or uploader.
.br
Default: \fI""\fR (disabled)
.TP
.B POOL_ID
Download from a specific pool (collection) instead of searching by tags.
Setting this ignores TAGS, RATING, and ORDER.
.br
Default: \fI""\fR (disabled)
.SH RESOLUTION AND ASPECT RATIO
.TP
.BR MIN_WIDTH ", " MAX_WIDTH
Horizontal resolution constraints in pixels.
.br
Default: \fI""\fR (disabled)
.TP
.BR MIN_HEIGHT ", " MAX_HEIGHT
Vertical resolution constraints in pixels.
.br
Default: \fI""\fR (disabled)
.TP
.B ASPECT_RATIO
Filter by visual proportions. Supported: \fB16:9\fR, \fB21:9\fR, \fB4:3\fR, \fB16:10\fR, \fB3:2\fR, \fB5:4\fR, \fB32:9\fR, or any custom \fBN:M\fR ratio.
.br
Default: \fI""\fR (disabled)
.SH ANIMATED CONTENT
.TP
.B PREFERRED_FORMAT
Desired file format: \fBjpg\fR, \fBgif\fR, or \fBwebm\fR.
.br
Default: \fB"jpg"\fR
.TP
.B ANIMATED_ONLY
When \fBtrue\fR, ignores generic tags and searches specifically for animated content (GIF/WebM).
.br
Default: \fB"false"\fR
.SH RANDOM TAG FEATURE
.TP
.B RANDOM_TAGS_LIST
Tags to randomly pick from when running with \fB--random-tags\fR.
Can be a bash array or a file path (one tag per line).
.br
Example: \fBRANDOM_TAGS_LIST=("landscape" "scenic" "sky")\fR
.br
Example: \fBRANDOM_TAGS_LIST="$HOME/.config/konapaper/discovered_tags.txt"\fR
.br
Default: \fB("landscape" "scenic" "sky" "clouds" "water" "original" "touhou" "building")\fR
.TP
.B RANDOM_TAGS_COUNT
The number of tags to pick from RANDOM_TAGS_LIST. Set to \fB0\fR to disable.
.br
Default: \fB0\fR
.SH CACHE AND PRELOADING
.TP
.B PRELOAD_COUNT
Number of wallpapers to download in the background for the next rotation.
.br
Default: \fB3\fR
.TP
.B MAX_PRELOAD_CACHE
Maximum number of wallpapers to retain in the preload directory.
.br
Default: \fB10\fR
.TP
.B DISCOVER_LIMIT
Number of items to fetch for discovery modes (tags/artists/pools).
.br
Default: \fB20\fR
.TP
.B FAVORITES_DIR
Directory where wallpapers saved with \fB--fav\fR are stored.
.br
Default: \fB~/Pictures/Wallpapers\fR
.SH NOTIFICATIONS
.TP
.B ENABLE_NOTIFICATIONS
Enable desktop notification toasts. Uses \fBnotify-send\fR.
.br
Default: \fB"false"\fR
.TP
.B NOTIFY_TIMEOUT
Timeout for completion notification toasts in milliseconds.
.br
Default: \fB5000\fR (5 seconds)
.TP
.B NOTIFY_PRELOAD
Enable notifications for background preload progress.
.br
Default: \fB"false"\fR
.SH LOGGING
.TP
.B ENABLE_LOGGING
Enable execution logging for debugging.
.br
Default: \fB"false"\fR
.TP
.B LOG_FILE
Path to the log file.
.br
Default: \fB~/.config/konapaper/konapaper.log\fR
.TP
.B LOG_LEVEL
Detail level: \fBbasic\fR, \fBdetailed\fR, or \fBverbose\fR.
.br
Default: \fB"detailed"\fR
.TP
.B LOG_ROTATION
Automatically rotate log files when they exceed 10MB.
.br
Default: \fB"true"\fR
.SH DISPLAY SERVER AND COMMANDS
.TP
.B DISPLAY_SERVER
Override auto-detected display server: \fBwayland\fR or \fBx11\fR.
.br
Default: \fI(auto-detected)\fR
.TP
.B WALLPAPER_COMMAND
Custom command used to set the wallpaper.
The placeholder \fB{IMAGE}\fR is replaced with the absolute path to the downloaded image.
.br
Example: \fBWALLPAPER_COMMAND="feh --bg-fill {IMAGE}"\fR
.br
Default: \fI(auto-detected based on available tools)\fR
.SH WALLPAPER TOOL COMMANDS
The following are the default command strings used when a tool is auto-detected.
You can copy any of these into \fBWALLPAPER_COMMAND\fR to customise behaviour.
.TP
.B awww (Wayland)
\fBawww img {IMAGE} --transition-type any --transition-fps 60 --transition-duration 1\fR
.TP
.B mpvpaper (Wayland/X11)
\fBmpvpaper -f -o "loop" ALL {IMAGE}\fR
.TP
.B swaybg (Wayland)
\fBpkill -f swaybg; swaybg -o '*' {IMAGE} &\fR
.TP
.B hyprpaper (Wayland)
\fBhyprctl hyprpaper preload {IMAGE}; for monitor in $(hyprctl monitors -j | jq -r '.[].name'); do hyprctl hyprpaper wallpaper "${monitor},{IMAGE}"; done\fR
.TP
.B feh (X11)
\fBfeh --bg-scale {IMAGE}\fR
.TP
.B nitrogen (X11)
\fBnitrogen --set-scaled --save {IMAGE}\fR
.TP
.B xwallpaper (X11)
\fBxwallpaper --zoom {IMAGE}\fR
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Ultra-wide setup with high score filtering
.nf
TAGS="scenic"
MIN_SCORE=30
ASPECT_RATIO="21:9"
MIN_WIDTH=3440
.fi
.SS Animated wallpaper enthusiast
.nf
PREFERRED_FORMAT="gif"
ANIMATED_ONLY="true"
WALLPAPER_COMMAND="mpvpaper -f -o \\"loop\\" ALL {IMAGE}"
.fi
.SH NOTES
.IP \[bu] 2
Changes to this file take effect on the next run of \fBkonapaper.sh\fR.
.IP \[bu]
Ensure all custom commands are installed and available in your \fBPATH\fR.
.IP \[bu]
All variables defined here can be overridden by their respective command-line flags.
.IP \[bu]
For other Moebooru-based sites, set \fBBASE_URL\fR in your config.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR konapaper (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/awtawsif/konapaper/issues
.\" =================================================================
.\" KONAPAPER.CONF(5)                      April 2026                    KONAPAPER.CONF(5)
.\" =================================================================
